Let's start out defining a couple of terms that
relate to database backup and restore, RTO and RPO.
RTO,
or Recovery Time Objective, represents how quickly you
need to recover from a disaster.
For example, if something happened to your database at 9:00 a.m.
and you wanted it operational again by 10:00 a.m.,
then your RTO would be 1 hour.
RPO, or Recovery Point Objective,
represents how much data you can afford to lose or recreate.
In other words,
what is the maximum gap of data you are willing to have
between a recovery point and a disaster?
For example, if the database went down at 9:00 a.m.
and you wanted data from up to 8:30 a.m.
to be included in the restored database, your RPO would be 30 minutes.
In other words,
your restored database should only be missing the previous
30 minutes of data before the disaster.
RTO and RPO requirements influence both your backup and restore strategy.
In this example,
the backup would need to take less than 30 minutes to complete to
maintain an RPO of 30 minutes, and the restore would need to take less
than an hour to maintain an RTO of 1 hour.
Different backup and restore methods may not meet your time requirements,
so you may need to look at options like replication and warm or hot standbys
instead of simply restoring a new instance from a backup.
RTO and RPO will dictate your backup frequency and, to some extent,
the location, or locations, where you will store those backups.
So why not just always implement an active‑active
multi‑region database solution?
Well, first, it may not be supported for a given database service.
Second, you may not have time to implement such a solution.
Third, you may not have enough budget to pay for that solution.
And fourth, it may be overly complex for the database deployment.
When you begin your database design by defining a realistic
RTO and RPO for your database deployment,
it's easier to balance your availability
requirements with the constraints of time,
cost, and complexity.
For example,
a test database may not really have an RPO or RTO
because all of the data is generated.
And if you need a new one, you can just make a new one.
You don't need to preserve any transactions that are
created during the lifetime of the database,
so there is very little value in spending the resources to
replicate this database across regions.
Other mission‑critical systems, on the other hand,
where every second the system is down could cost the
organization thousands of dollars, would need to have a very low RTO and RPO,
usually measured in seconds.
In these cases,
it does make sense to invest in the infrastructure that can support a
near‑instantaneous failover in the event of a disaster.
If disaster recovery and failover speed are critical
elements of your database deployment,
be sure to select a database service that can support
those RPO and RTO requirements.
Some managed services, like Amazon Aurora Global Database,
can support an RPO of 1 second and an RTO of less than 1 minute.
Other services may not be able to achieve those recovery times,
so be sure to understand the capabilities of the
database service when making your decision.
Great job!
You've covered routine maintenance tasks that need to be taken care of for your
database including making sure you have enough disk space,
keeping your database engine patched and updated,
managing log files,
and establishing a maintenance window for performing these activities.
You saw how managed database services can help lower your
maintenance responsibility by automatically taking care of many
of these things for you and how you may sometimes need to
implement unmanaged services yourself,
depending on the level of control you need over database configuration settings.
Finally, we defined Recovery Time Objective,
or RTO, and Recovery Point Objective, or RPO,
and how those two requirements influence your backup and restore strategy,
along with the familiar constraints of time,
cost, complexity, and database engine support.
Join me in the next module where we'll discuss monitoring and troubleshooting databases.